Once we have our toggling bar our next task is going to be setting up the nav bar fixed.
So as we start scrolling I would like to make sure that my nav bar is fixed.
So now as I was crawling up and down the page we have now bar sitting there on top of the page.
But once in fact we get to a very top of the document.
Well then our now bar is just sitting like it was normally sitting.
And by the way the same is going to work also on a smaller screen size.
So again that is my finished recording.
Notice as we start scrolling you're going to notice that our number still stays there on the top.
And I can still in fact toggle it right now the same like we had already previously.
We're gonna have to start our journey in the style CSX assess.
So here we have an and of Navarre.
So why don't we add a common a fixed nav bar so similarly how we had with the toggling first we're gonna
have to come up with the class and then dynamically we're going to added to our nav bar but of course
before that we need to create class and then we're gonna test that out just by manually adding in our
H2 AML.
So first of all let's create that class.
So let's say fixed and you know it.
Just so you can see everything that is happening.
Why don't we head over back to the nav bar and where we have the NAV and we have a class of No.
Why don't we add our fixed class and then all the changes we're going to add for this particular component
or meaning element I guess more class than we're gonna be able to see it right away here on a browser.
And first of all I would want to set it position fixed.
So I'm going to take it out of the normal flow and not just what happens.
Well right away the moment we do that we have right now our element taken out of normal flow.
So it's just sitting there so I can create keeps calling up and down and my number is of course sitting
right there.
Now what I would like to do though is right away set up the position for this particular element since
it's not a more sitting in a normal flow.
So I'm gonna go with Tab zero the left is going to be also zero.
Like so then with why don't we go with hundred percent so our width is going to be hundred percent right
now.
And in this case we do need to add some kind of background correct because remember that was one of
the things when we were setting up our Navarre.
In fact we didn't use any background color.
Remember all the way in the beginning I even showed you that if we would add some kind of background
then we would be able to see.
But now the problem is that since we have this nav bar background color like we already had previously
while it's just showing when it's showing and when it's not showing well it's in fact behind the content
that's sitting there.
So what I would like to do right now is set in fact some kind of background something to say var and
I'm going to go for the main gre.
So essentially our NAV bar is there.
We just cannot see it.
And now sure enough once we have in fact this number then we can clearly see that our NAV bar sitting
there OK.
That is a awesome start.
And now what I would like to do is in fact use this transition like so because as we are changing weather
now Boris fixed or not I would like to happen smoothly.
So again we're going to do it using JavaScript functionality but since I would like to happen smoothly
we're going to add this transition properly.
So let's say transition property is going to be equal to var.
And again we have our main transition.
Then why don't we also add a box shadow.
So I would like to add a little bit of box shadow around my napper.
So as was crawling in fact let's say once we get to this grey section I would want it to stand out.
So remember we had a real variable for that.
So we can say box shadow and we're going to go with light shadow white shadow like so.
So now we have all that shadow.
And then of course also as we're scrolling there's gonna be cases where you notice we do have our image
and all that but are in fact Navarre is behind them all right.
We cannot see them in few cases.
So in order to fix that we're going to set up a z index of 1.
So that case as we're calling up and down it is in fact sitting up front.
And once we're done setting up our sources again the javascript functionality is going to be somewhat
straightforward.
We're currently we're adding this position are fixed with of course our class of fixed manually where
we just head over to Navarre when we add the class a fixed if I'm going to remove class of fixed horse
my number is just going to be sitting on the top and nothing is going to happen as we start scrolling
up and down.
If again we're gonna have this class fixed then of course are now bar is gonna be fixed to a top of
the page.
So as we scrolling up and down Navarre is just sitting there on top.
So similarly how we had we a toggle we're gonna have to do this dynamically.
So again let's head over back to Algiers.
Now again I'm gonna select my comments and I'm gonna change them around because at this point it is
not going to be nav toggle is going to be nav fixed RAM so fixed nap.
Now let's start by selecting our NAV bar.
Now we can do it in multiple ways.
We can target in fact the I.D. so we could set up some kind of I.D. here but in this case just to change
things around.
I'm in fact going to use this classroom number just to show that of course once we use javascript we're
not limited to selecting only the elements with I.D. can also select classes.
So let's write first of all cost and I'm going to call this a nav bar is equal to a document.
Now instead of using get element by D we're going gonna use a query selector and we're going to select
our NAV bar.
All right.
Now again just to double check whether everything works correctly.
Why don't we console log our NAV bar.
And if we have the number then we can proceed.
If not we need to double check whether all our setup is working color correctly.
Now once we have console logged number and we can clearly see that we are selecting it.
Now we would want to add the event listener to our window to our pretty much a browser window.
So as we start calling I would like to set up a event listener for that.
So let's write again a window.
Now in this case I'm going to order right away.
Add event listener and again same two things.
First of all we need to say what event are really going to be listening to and then the second one is
going to be a callback function.
Once that particular event is being called and what we can do right now is console log something really
interesting with the value of page y offset.
So I can say window then page y offset and you're going to notice that as we start scrolling we're gonna
have some values and that essentially tells us well how much we have scrolled down.
Okay.
So as I keep on scrolling notice that my values are also changing.
So now let's say I'm like thousand something pixels scrawled from the top.
And we're gonna use this value in fact to add that class or NAV bar dynamically.
Now first of all we need to understand that I would like to add this class once I have reached 62 pixels.
Now why 62 pixels.
Because again if I look at my dev tools I can notice that my now bar has a with that is of course changing.
So the first value is gonna change depending on the screen size but the second one the height is not
going to change.
In fact it is going to stay exactly sixty two pixels.
And now I can say something like this where I'm going to use the if an L statement and we're going to
say window then again page y offset if it is bigger than 62 pixels then I would like to add a class
list of fixed.
Now y class fixed.
Remember we created this class.
Right.
So what I would like to do is say Navarre since we just selected the nav bar and then we're gonna have
a class list again.
That is our property.
And then we have a method of ADD let's just say we would like to have this class fixed and one that
we just created.
However if it is not bigger than 62 well then I would like to remove that glass somewhere else you can
just say Navarre class list remove.
And we're again moving the class of.
So let's save that and you're going to notice that the moment we in fact start scrolling.
Then once we get past 62.
Only then our NAV bar gets this classic fixed and again we can actually check this out how that happens
dynamically if we're going to head over to our now bar in our Deftones notice we're going to have our
NAV element and what is the class there.
When the class is fixed.
So if I'm going to scroll back then I'm going to have only napper.
If we're going to scroll past 62 while then the now bar is wide awake going to have this class.
So now as I was crawling up and down the document or nav bar is going to be fixed.
So each and every time our user wants to access the number he or she can easily do it.
So that would be setting up our NAV fixed to a top of the document as we start scrolling through our
document.